[Applause]
[Music]
the moral argument here is made easier
because we're talking about people who
are under 18 years old I think would be
just as important if they were over 18 I
think that what you do with your time
still really matters I think that the
corrosive influence of political and
religious authority in your life still
really matters if you're over 18 I don't
take lightly at all that there were
thirty year old and forty year old
people making these same mistakes but
sure seeing a 14 year old do it a 15
year old do it the consequences for
these decisions including the decision
to get yourself arrested get yourself
put in prison somehow ethically it's
harder for us in the audience to ignore
but if you have a friend who's thirty
years old or forty years old and is
making these same mistakes is involved
with this same organization I'd urge you
take the time to reach out
[Applause]
[Music]
just as you probably look at this video
now and think wow if that was my 14 year
old daughter I wouldn't let her do that
just as you look at this video and think
wow if I had been 14 years old or 15
years old doing the things these videos
well I really would be mixed up I would
have been able to cope with this I would
look back now wish someone have reached
out to help me there are 30 year olds
who need your help okay there are people
over the age of 18 who need guidance who
need advice who need help who need a
friend at any age you could be just as
vulnerable in just as difficult the
situation as this this girl is now okay
so she's not the only one and this is
not a problem
strictly delimited by age nor gender
male female or otherwise you know this
is a real problem that it's a real
problem that hurts a soul in this
generation and sure you know the
isolation and the agony of being a vegan
in a meat eating world sure I can relate
to it and I can relate to the
desperation of people wanting to have
friends I'm going to feel like they're
members of a powerful social movement
feel like they're a part of something
larger themselves feel like they're part
of the solution and not just part of the
problem and I know I know what desperate
things
you know people are motivated to do the
problem is there were guys like Wayne's
young who are exploiting that
desperation movements are not built by
great leaders and figureheads they're
built by masses of ordinary people who
all become empowered to make change
first and their own lies then their
surrounding communities and then the
world so what we need to do is build
that sort of strong grassroots movement
where everyone who walks in the door
feels like their voice matters and their
power is growing here's a here's a
slender young woman teenager pouring
blood on her face
why do you think she did that what do
you think motivated that badger who
benefits from this kind of publicity
stunt and who's harmed you know this
particular young woman Cassie I've heard
her talking about how eager she was to
cover herself and manure another stunt
she's known for another publicity stunt
for direct action everywhere and Wayne
was so delighted that this got in the
newspapers I've seen his reaction he was
so happy so here she is in revealing a
tire lying down in a pile of poo that's
what it is
that's the protest so to my knowledge
she did these stunts while she was
enrolled as a university student at
university California Berkeley believe
she's now recently graduated so she was
presumably over the age of 18 but I
don't know she was a teenager of some
kind also think about the influence this
had on the fourteen-year-old girl
showing the beginning this video
discussed in the prior video think about
the role models she's looking up to
within this movement I think the actions
taken by Cassie King probably the main
people who are hurt by them are exactly
the younger people who may really look
up to her who maybe tried to emulate
what is she's doing she sets out or
whole rationale and at all it all seems
to make sense
non-violent disruptive action is how we
will all win blah blah blah if you think
pouring a jar of blood in your head in
front of a fancy store and crowd of
people would be uncomfortable
just remember the suffering of the
animals Wow
gee that that really seems to make a lot
of sense Cassie may be a 14 year old
would find that you know really
compelling but I've got I've got a
couple questions for you Cassie um
number one if this is like a really
legitimate form of activism that that
you're engaged in here
why isn't it something being done by 30
year old people 40 year old people why
isn't it being done by gary Franchione a
by a man in his 70s who has a PhD and as
a university professor or published
books very what why isn't this being
done by ingrid newkirk why is it just
you you teenagers who seem to be
exploited this way by playing it at DXE
why do you why do you think that is
it certainly is puzzling you know I'm
Cassie you might not know this but when
Wayne founded the organization will
Wayne became your great leader and you
know nobody elected him um
Wayne claims he's been elected it's a
topic for another video oh you know
Wayne is the unelected dictator of
direct action everywhere
his main claim to authority was that the
type of activism he was gonna do would
be more effective than any other vegan
activist group before would be more
effective than any other animal rights
group before he was gonna
professionalize the world of animal
rights activism because he was gonna
take this movement and ground it in the
results of social science research
social science research there was
research and data and evidence that
would prove what was effective activism
and what was ineffective activism and
you really think you really think
there's empirical evidence that there's
data to tell me why teenage girl pouring
blood in her face
why that's effective activism why does
teenage girl lying down in manure his
effective actors and white is a 14 year
old or 15 year old running into a
restaurant across restorin screaming
strangers why that would be effective at
him you think there's a rock-solid case
for this you think Wayne can back up his
argument
I've been reading his work watching his
lectures
for years now least five years six years
there's nothing behind it Cassie you're
as much an expert as Wayne is and if I
add the two of you together you still
have no expertise at all Wayne began
this whole game saying he'd be better
than petaa he'd do something better than
people with the Ethical Treatment of
Animals but it's just the same bunch of
random stupid self-defeating publicity
stunts right you're really just doing
the same thing that made pet and
notorious in the 1980s Oh what do you
know here you are receiving an award
from peda I guess that's why Cassie
because they really recognize that
you're doing you're making all the same
mistakes they made well what happened
all that social science research I
thought DXE was something new and
different
bunnell quote we also had the pleasure
of presenting a compassionate activist
award - Cassie King who's fearless
activism has included everything from
climbing into a Costco meat freezer to
disrupting a SeaWorld Show wait wait a
minute
I remember seeing videotape of this
Cassie you know that's one way to
describe what you did Cassie yes yes
that you fearlessly climbed into a meat
freezer you know what another way to
describe that is that it was a skinny
teenage girl in a bikini in a
flesh-colored bikini lying down in a
public display you know in a grocery
store why is that Cassie why do you
think it is that it's a skinny teenage
girl doing that why do you think petaa
did so many forms of activism in the
past that involved slender and fit young
women naked almost naked in bikinis why
do you think that is why do you think
that form of activism isn't done by Gary
France aione Ingrid Newkirk why is it if
if this is a legitimate form of activism
why is it being
by 16 year olds eighteen year olds why
is that who's exploiting who here Cassie
what do you think the future of the
movement really is do you think it's
more of this social science research
that that Wayne has hidden away in a in
an academic desk drawer somewhere how do
you think it is how do you think it is
that we keep coming up with reasons to
have skinny teenage girls in bikinis
that's her form of activism do you think
there was ever social science research
proving that when Pettit did it it was
effective and when Wayne is doing it now
and direct action everywhere through now
you think that's the most effective form
of form of protest
why don't you look back to history
that's what Wayne claimed he was gonna
do right is that how we abolish slavery
is that how we accomplished gay rights
so that even how we made seat belts
mandatory to help black people in
America got the right to vote do you
think so you think so girls in bikinis
and look you know there's another way to
describe that same event Cassie of you
getting into that bikini because she she
was wearing clothes right she stood
there and screamed at people made this
lecture and then she tore off her
clothes revealing the bikini underneath
and lay down under me you know some
other people in that grocery store might
have just said you know a crazy lady
stood there screaming and everyone tried
to ignore her that would be another
description of of what happened but you
know there's a chain of influence here
right there are the people in charge of
direct action everywhere the leaders
influence the followers the people at
peda who give out awards influence
people like Cassie King they influence
people acquaints young and then you guys
influence the ultimate victims the 14
year olds in the 15 year olds yeah but
also plenty of 30 year olds and four
year olds who have the same sick
mentality as those 14 year olds you know
what Leonard Cohen said they are
reaching out for love they will reach
that way forever here you are Cassie
you are being a role model for those
younger kids quote today we got three
new charges philony conspiracy
misdemeanor unlawful assembly and
misdemeanor trespass yeah
she's made videos talking with us this
is an Instagram post they're all so
proud to get these charges and maybe now
finally go to prison well you keep
testing the authorities this way you
keep breaking the law you keep daring
the authorities to put you in prison
when we all know that you're guilty when
you even boast about how guilty you are
well sooner or later I think you guys
will get your wish you'll get the
notoriety of going to prison and we see
here here is the influence you have on
the 14 year olds and 15 year olds I
think she was 15 when this was filmed
this is the same young woman you saw at
the beginning of this video and this
isn't the first time she's been arrested
she already described to us as she was
arrested for running onto the field at a
baseball game and here she is getting
chained up in a protest the handcuffs
arrested and taken away many people in
my audience will remember how this whole
game began with Wayne getting the
financial support to start to write
action everywhere
crucial support from Ingrid Newkirk and
you'll remember the promises and the
philosophy he espoused at that time
fewer of you will have watched the
series of stages where by d-x EE diluted
and then discarded every fundamental
principle that defined why their
organization exists its moral purpose
what it was they they were supposed to
represent how they were in an
accomplished situation we're in now is
that Wayne's young will not let a new
generation
take over control with the organization
as of the last I've heard all of the
money is neatly under the control of
Wayne and his sister there have been
numerous attempts to try to kick him out
of the group try to return direct action
everywhere to some semblance of what it
used to be when it was founded to serve
the purposes people actually donated the
money to serve all the evils men do to
attain power are minuscule compared to
what they will do to remain in power
once they have become accustomed to it a
crocodile wandering on dry land is less
dangerous than one that has become
accustomed to your bathwater I don't
know if Wayne song was really dangerous
before but I'd say he's dangerous now